CO abilities are usually made of three components - the Day-to-Day ability (or D2D for short) which affects the game passively, and the CO Power (COP) and Super CO Power (SCOP) which have a meter that must be charged up in order to be used. Andy and Adder do not have any day-to-day abilities and Von Bolt does not have a CO Power, but all COs have a Super CO Power. 
Day-to-day abilities are permanent and active 100% of the time. They can have various different effects but are most often an increase - or even decrease - in the attack or defence of specific units. For example, all of Jake's units gain +10% attack on Plains, and all of Max's direct units (except footsoldiers) gain +20% attack while his indirect units lose -10% attack. You can check on what the D2D ability is of any CO in a game by mousing over their CO portrait. 
CO Powers and especially Super CO Powers have a huge range of effects and can vary in power from a modest combat boost (such as Adder's Sideslip) to a game-swinging power that turns the tide of battle whenever it is used (such as Eagle's Lightning Strike), often - though not always - correlating with how expensive a power is and how long it takes to charge. Every CO Power will give a universal +10% boost to their attack and defense on top of their normal day-to-day abilities and their effects usually last until the start of their next turn. 
Power Meter
A CO Power can be activated when smaller portion of the Power Meter (or Charge Meter) is filled, represented in AWBW by a segmented bar under each CO's portrait. Despite their visual appearance on the website, sections of the power meter are often referred to as Stars as a holdover from Advance Wars 2 and Dual Strike, where the CO meter was represented by a row of small and large stars. 
Every star is worth 9000 funds at the start of the game. Each additional use of a CO Power (including SCOP) increases the value of each star by 20% (1800) up to the tenth usage; after this, it won't increase any further. 
Stars on the power meter can be charged in two ways: damage dealt by your units - where you gain meter equal to 50% of the value in damage you inflict - and damage received by your units - where you gain charge equal to 100% of the value in damage you take, including damage from counterattacks. Damage dealt by missiles launched from Missile Silos and Black Bombs do not count, however, towards either damage dealt or received. Damage dealt by CO Powers directly (such as Olaf's Winter Fury) also does not contribute to meter gain in any way. 
The meter cannot be 'overcharged' - if a CO's power meter is full, any further power they gain after this point will simply be wasted. In addition, if a CO's Power is currently active, they cannot gain any CO meter until the power ends. 
Keep in mind that while damage calculations do track unit health down to the hundredths (see Damage Formula), only a unit's visual health is used for the purpose of meter calculations. For example, withstanding an attack that does 57% damage and losing 5 HP will only add 50% of the value of the unit to the power meter, not 57%. 
The total amount of charge added to the meter during an attack or counterattack can be calculated as: 
Attacking:  
Defending:  
... where damage dealt and damage received is the integer difference of hit points before and after the attack. 
Real unit cost is also factored into the calculation, so COs with cost-affecting powers (namely, Hachi and Colin who have price reductions and Kanbei who has a price increase) will charge their powers more slowly and more quickly on a per-unit basis, respectively. This also applies for their opponent as well - for example, even though Hachi cannot gain power meter while his COP Barter is active, his opponent will only gain meter from his units at half their usual rate. 

